the brain is a kind of physical system
now unless you are willing to believe in
Supernatural explanations then
this tells us
that computers are able to simulate and
not even electronic computers things
like the analytical engine can simulate
the functioning of a human brain and so
they should be able to be conscious
whatever Consciousness is it must be a
property of brains and brains are made
of atoms which are performing
computations or at least the neurons are
performing the computations I'm going to
skip a little bit more and David writes
up to page 137 now
Babbage and lovelights also thought
about one application of universal
computers that has not been achieved to
this day namely so-called artificial
intelligence AI since human brains are
physical objects obeying the laws of
physics and since the analytical engine
is a universal simulator it could be
programmed to think in every sense that
humans can albeit very slowly and
requiring an impractically vast number
of punched cards nevertheless Babbage
and Lovelace denied that it could love
lace argued that the analytical engine
has no pretensions whatever to originate
anything it can do whatever we know
how to order it to perform it can follow
analysis but it has no power of
anticipating any analytical relations or
truths
the mathematician and computer Pioneer
Alan Turing later called this mistake
lady lovelace's objection
it was not computational universality
that Lovelace failed to appreciate but
the universality of the laws of physics
science at the time had almost no
knowledge of the physics of the brain
also Darwin's theory of evolution had
not yet been published and Supernatural
accounts of the nature of human beings
were still prevalent today there is less
mitigation for the minority of
scientists and philosophers who still
believe that AI is unobtainable for
instance the philosopher John Searle has
placed the AI project in the following
historical perspective for centuries
some people have tried to explain the
mind in mechanical terms using similes
and metaphors based on the most complex
Machines of the day first the brain was
supposed to be like an immensely
complicated set of gears and levers then
it was hydraulic pipes then steam
engines then telephone exchangers and
now that computers are our most
impressive technology brains are said to
be computers but this is still no more
than a metaphor say so and there is no
more reason to expect the brain to be a
computer than a steam engine
opposed there and this is
even though an unpopular opinion above
philosophers scientists
academics people engaged in the debate
today I would still say it's the
overwhelming majority of the man on the
street who would say that indeed it's
impossible for a computer to think in
the way that people can and that
assuming that a what a brain is doing is
a kind of computation is still a
metaphor is best thought of as a
metaphor I think there was a there's
been an article that's been going around
recently and to this effect it sometimes
appears in popular science articles and
that kind of thing that the brain is
doing something special that the brain
can't possibly be a computer okay so let
me reread that last bit and continue
this is still no more than a metaphor
say soil and there is no more reason to
expect the brain to be a computer than a
steam engine but there is a steam engine
is not a universal simulator but a
computer is so expecting it to be able
to do whatever neurons can is not a
metaphor it is a known and proven
property of the laws of physics as best
we know them and as it happens hydraulic
pipes could also be made into a
universal classical computer and so
could gears and levers as Babbage that
showed by the way we should just
acknowledge the fact there that when
David writes it is a known and proven
property of the laws of physics as best
we know them he proved that okay so
that's his proof so that's the seminal
1985 paper where he shows how the
field of computation what was previously
the mathematics of computation if you
like was in fact a branch of physics
because computers are made out of atoms
atoms obey the laws of quantum theory so
therefore there can be such a thing as a
quantum theory of computation